Israel has been expanding also its
ground assault deep into Gaza on several
fronts with at least 15 of its soldiers
having been killed in the last 24 hours
as we've reported satellite images and
reports from the ground show Israeli
troops invading the territory from Three
locations in the north and east Israeli
tanks have been seen south of Gaza City
on the main saladine road linking the
north with the South Israeli media say
the military is trying to reach Al
Rashid Street along the coast if it
succeeds the Gaza Strip will be
effectively cut in half well let's
discuss his military moves with Az haa
who's a foreign affairs and Military
analyst joining us from laor in Pakistan
thank you very much for your time um so
let me ask you first about this latest
attack on jabalia refugee camp another
one on this Camp uh Israel on Tuesday
said that a top Hamas Commander was
killed uh in the air strikes on Tuesday
Tuesday we we've heard time in time
about Israel having the most
sophisticated militaries in the world
why is one of the most sophisticated
militaries in the world with all its
Precision weapons why is it that it
can't kill one top Hamas Commander which
is it stated military objective without
killing a 100
civilians thank you for having me well
uh Urban uh combat is very tricky uh in
fact uh Hamas actually rejected the
claim that they had killed uh one of
their leaders uh and so you know Israel
has constantly been saying that Hamas
uses civilians as as a shield uh but uh
the second attack basically makes no
sense because a Israel is made no Claim
about why it did it and it seems to be
part of uh this you know the unfolding
scenario that we've been witnessing
unfortunately and very tragically since
October 88th following the Hamas
military operation against Israel which
is uh about Collective punishment you
know I've been constantly watching your
channel uh a number of analysts and
international law experts have been very
clear about the fact that all these
actions constitute war crimes but
uh going going in is where Israel is
gradually losing its aetric advantage
over when you say going in you mean you
mean the ground offensive the ground
incursion the ground offensive yeah the
ground incursion because militarily
technologically obviously the IDF is one
of the strongest militaries in the
Middle East and also in the world and
Hamas doesn't have Air Force Hamas
cannot counter that uh uh but once you
go on the
ground the asymmetric advantage that
Israel has with reference to its uh its
Iron Dome system or its Air Force or the
kind of TNT that it has been dropping on
Gaza according to their own uh you know
estimates 11,000 bombs I mean sitting
here uh I cannot even imagine the kind
of TNT that they have dropped there
right but once you go in you lose that
ismetric Advantage because now you're
going to go face to face man to man
Street to Street Rubble to Rubble
destroyed buildings to destroyed
buildings right let me let me just pick
up on that because as you say they have
the air power to support this ground
incursion and we've seen it we've seen
it with the constant air strikes the
constant bombing as the Israeli troops
are going in and yet in in the last 24
hours or so we've heard of 15 Israeli
soldiers killed what does that tell you
about this ground incursion and the type
of resistance Hamas is putting up what
is Hamas doing to counter this in your
view right as I said Urban combat is
tricky I mean we can go back in history
Stalingrad gry mosul fuja uh you you can
bomb the city but ironically uh when you
bomb a city you create a lot of rubble
half destroyed destroyed buildings
and then you go in and tanks and armored
fighting Vehicles essentially after a
while become fairly useless Because
unless you you know you've got to get
the dozers and everything you got to
clear the rubble that you created in the
first place uh and you need to have foot
infantry even if you go in with
mechanized infantry at some point people
have to get down and that is where their
initial Advantage uh is is uh
essentially new neutralized because the
adversary that you facing uh is in a
place where it knows the terrain like
the back of his hand uh and you know I
haven't been to Gaza but from what I've
been uh you know uh reading and watching
over the last many many years about the
tunnels and the previous conflicts uh
that is where the where Hamas has an
advantage so once the Israelis go in uh
on Fort and as I said previously where
they have to face off uh you know
through infantry weapons and infantry
weapons frankly uh even in 21st century
are the essentially the same as they
were in the 20th century you've got
assault rifles you got sidearms you got
shoulder fired rocket propelled grenade
launchers uh Hamas now also uses uh you
know innovatively these uh normally
commercially available drones that
they're using as direct attack munitions
we've seen that on October 7th uh
they've also said that they've got
they've developed these uh these
shoulder fired Rockets right which can
take out the maaas and and the armored
fighting Vehicles so yes uh it's it will
now get down to the numbers and and how
far uh Hamas can sustain this through
ammunition food water the rest of it and
whatever they've stored for uh for a you
know protracted conflict very
interesting to hear your your thoughts
about this and and thank you for your
sight AZ hater a foreign affairs and
Military analyst joining us there from
Lor in
Pakistan